It is to Professor Samuel F. B. Morse, the distinguished inventor of the Magnetic Telegraph, of New York, that we are indebted for the application of photography to portrait taking. He was in Paris, for the purpose of presenting to the scientific world his Electro Magnetic Telegraph, at the time M. Daguerre announced his splendid discovery; its astounding results, as well as its bearing on the art of design claimed his attention. In a letter on the subject, the Professor details the following interesting facts: 

"The process was a secret, and negotiations were then in progress, for the disclosure of it to the public between the French government and the distinguished discoverer. M. Daguerre had shown his results to the king, and to a few only of the distinguished savants, and by the advice of M. Arago, had determined to wait the action of the French Chambers, before showing them to any other persons. I was exceedingly desirous of seeing them, but knew not how to approach M. Daguerre who was a stranger to me. On mentioning my desire to Robert Walsh, Esq., our worthy Consul, he said to me, 'State that you are an American, the inventor of the Telegraph, request to see them, and invite him in turn to see the Telegraph, and I know enough of the urbanity and liberal feelings of the French, to insure you an invitation.' I was successful in my application, and with a young friend, since deceased, the promising son of Edward Delevan, Esq., I passed a most delightful hour with M. Daguerre, and his enchanting pictures. My letter containing an account of this visit, and these pictures, was the first announcement in this country of this splendid discovery. 

"I may here add the singular sequel to this visit. On the succeeding day M. Daguerre paid me a visit to see the Telegraph and witness its operations. He seemed much gratified and remained with me perhaps two hours; two melancholy hours to him, as they afterwards proved; or while he was with me, his buildings, including his diorama, his studio, his laboratory, with all the beautiful pictures I had seen the day before, were consumed by fire. Fortunately for mankind, matter only was consumed, the soul and mind of the genius, and the process were still in existence." 

On his return home, Professor Morse waited with impatience for the revelation of M. Daguerre's process, and no sooner was it published than he obtained a copy of the work containing it, and at once commenced taking Daguerreotype pictures. At first his goal was solely to furnish his studio with studies from nature; however, his experiments led him to believe that creating portraits by the process would be practical, and he was undoubtedly the first whose attempts were met with success. Interestingly enough, though, he thought at that time that it was necessary to place the sitters in a very strong light, so they were all taken with their eyes closed. 